docs: updating contribution guide process (#11174)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/contributing/development/contributing_guide.rst

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Make sure you have a `GitHub account <https://github.com/join>`_

> #. Clone the cilium repository into your GOPATH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Clone the cilium repository into your ``GOPATH``.
```

   ::

>       mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/cilium

Reviewer 2: With modules this doesn't need to be the case, I just have the repo cloned at `~/Code/cilium` and `GOPATH=~/Code/cilium/.gopath`, it works perfectly for me. I don't insist that we document my setup as such, but just saying that `src/github.com/cilium` prefix and pre-existing `GOPATH` are not essential and there is a lot of flexibility.

Author: @errordeveloper @Rolinh @tklauser @joestringer in an ideal world that is correct but we use kubernetes scripts that depend a lot on GOPATH. Each developer is free to set the project on the directory that suits better his / her dev workflow but for new corners is better to have these instructions so they don't have any issues if they try to use the k8s scripts. (`make generate-k8s-api`)

Reviewer 2: I see, thanks for clarifying.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/11341

#. All commits are signed off. See the section :ref:`dev_coo`.

#. (optional) Pick the appropriate milestone for which this PR is being targeted
   to, e.g. ``1.1``, ``1.2``. This is in particular important in the time frame
   between the feature freeze and final release date.

> #. If you have permissions to do it so, pick the right release-note label.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. If you have permissions to do so, pick the right release-note label.
```

   +--------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | Labels                   | When to set                                                                                |
   +==========================+============================================================================================+

>    | ``release-note/bug``     | This is a non-trivial bugfix and is a user facing bug                                      |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   | ``release-note/bug``     | This is a non-trivial bugfix and is a user-facing bug                                      |
```

   +--------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/major``   | This is a major feature addition, e.g. Add MongoDB support                                 |
   +--------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/minor``   | This is a minor feature addition, e.g. Add support for a Kubernetes version                |
   +--------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/misc``    | This is a misc change, e.g. Refactor endpoint package, a bug fix of a non-released feature |
   +--------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

#. Verify the release note text. If not explicitly changed, the title of the PR
   will be used for the release notes. If you want to change this, you can add
   a special section to the description of the PR.
   These release notes are primarily going to be read by users so it is

>    important that release notes for bugs, major and minor features does not

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   important that release notes for bugs, major and minor features do not
```

>    contain internal details of Cilium functionality which sometimes are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   contain internal details of Cilium functionality that are
```
Unless you mean we shouldn't include internal details of Cilium, regardless of whether they are relevant to users?

Author: Correct. The release notes should are for users only, for developers there's the whole PR description + commit message.

#. All commits are signed off. See the section :ref:`dev_coo`.

#. (optional) Pick the appropriate milestone for which this PR is being

>    targeted, e.g. ``1.1``, ``1.2``. This is in particular important in the time

Reviewer: Nit: Would be a good occasion to increment those version numbers?

> #. (optional) Pick the appropriate milestone for which this PR is being targeted
>    to, e.g. ``1.1``, ``1.2``. This is in particular important in the time frame

Reviewer 5: nit: 

```suggestion
#. (optional) Pick the appropriate milestone for which this PR is being targeted,
   e.g. ``1.1``, ``1.2``. This is in particular important in the time frame
```

I always get mixed up in the "for which ..." style sentence but it's valid. The `to` bit at the end is not necessary though.

   | Labels                            | When to set                                                                                            |
   +===================================+========================================================================================================+
   | ``release-note/bug``              | This is a non-trivial bugfix and is a user facing bug                                                  |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/major``            | This is a major feature addition, e.g. Add MongoDB support                                             |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/minor``            | This is a minor feature addition, e.g. Add support for a Kubernetes version                            |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | ``release-note/misc``             | This is a not user facing change , e.g. Refactor endpoint package, a bug fix of a non-released feature |

Reviewer 6: Should we add `release-note/ci` here, or should it be grouped under `misc`?

Author: Yeah I forgot about the `release-note/ci` :facepalm: will add it

#. All commits are signed off. See the section :ref:`dev_coo`.

#. (optional) Pick the appropriate milestone for which this PR is being
   targeted, e.g. ``1.6``, ``1.7``. This is in particular important in the time
   frame between the feature freeze and final release date.

#. If you have permissions to do so, pick the right release-note label. These
   labels will be used to generate the release notes which will primarily be
   read by users.

   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | Labels                            | When to set                                                                                            |
   +===================================+========================================================================================================+

>    | ``release-note/bug``              | This is a non-trivial bugfix and is a user facing bug                                                  |

Reviewer 4: Nit: `s/user facing/user-facing`

There are many occurrences of these.

   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/major``            | This is a major feature addition, e.g. Add MongoDB support                                             |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/minor``            | This is a minor feature addition, e.g. Add support for a Kubernetes version                            |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/misc``             | This is a not user facing change , e.g. Refactor endpoint package, a bug fix of a non-released feature |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/ci``               | This is a CI feature of bug fix.                                                                       |

>    +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer 7: I always wondered why we don't have a `release-note/doc` label as I don't think that documentation updates really fit any of the other release-note categories (especially addition of brand new content).

Author: Brand new content could be considered a `release-note/minor` or `/major`

      level bullet point item and any additional line will be added as a sub
      item to the first line.

#. If you have permissions, pick the right labels for your PR:

   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | Labels                       | When to set                                                               |
   +==============================+===========================================================================+
   | ``kind/bug``                 | This is a bugfix worth mentioning in the release notes                    |
   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``kind/enhancement``         | This enhances existing functionality in Cilium                            |
   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | ``kind/feature``             | This is an feature                                                        |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   | ``kind/feature``             | This is a feature                                                         |
```

   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``priority/release-blocker`` | This PR should block the current release                                  |
   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``needs-backport/X.Y``       | PR needs to be backported to these stable releases                        |
   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``backport/X.Y``             | This is backport PR, may only be set as part of :ref:`backport_process`   |
   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``upgrade-impact``           | The code changes have a potential upgrade impact                          |
   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | ``area/*`` (Optional)        | Code area this PR covers                                                  |

Reviewer 3: Might be useful to clarify the use case(s) for these labels if we want folks to use them. I'm guessing they're only used to search/triage issues and pull requests?

Author: I was planning to remove this line but then I decided to add the `(Optional)` instead.

Reviewer 7: Could this label be automatically set by using on the `CODEOWNERS` file (via the bot)?
I personally use it extensively to find hubble related issues/PRs.

   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

   .. note:

      If you do not have permissions to set labels on your pull request. Leave
      a comment and a core team member will add the labels for you. Most
      reviewers will do this automatically without prior request.

> #. GitHub provides the ability to create a Pull Request in "draft" mode.

Reviewer 5: Might be worth starting this paragraph with a short sentence "Open a draft pull request." then proceed with the explanation of how and why.

   On the "New Pull Request" page, below the pull request description box there
   is a button for creating the pull request. Click the arrow and choose
   "Create draft pull request". If your PR is still a work in progress, please
   select this mode. You will still be able to run the CI against it. Once the
   PR is ready for review you can click in "Ready for review" button at the
   bottom of the page" and reviewers will start reviewing. When you are actively
   changing your PR, set it back to draft PR mode to signal that reviewers do
   not need to spend time reviewing the PR right now. When it is ready for
   review again, mark it ready for review again.

> .. image:: https://i1.wp.com/user-images.githubusercontent.com/3477155/52671177-5d0e0100-2ee8-11e9-8645-bdd923b7d93b.gif

Reviewer 3: Nice!

   | ``area/*`` (Optional)        | Code area this PR covers                                                  |
   +------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

   .. note:

      If you do not have permissions to set labels on your pull request. Leave
      a comment and a core team member will add the labels for you. Most
      reviewers will do this automatically without prior request.

#. Open a draft pull request. GitHub provides the ability to create a Pull
   Request in "draft" mode. On the "New Pull Request" page, below the pull
   request description box there is a button for creating the pull request.
   Click the arrow and choose "Create draft pull request". If your PR is still a
   work in progress, please select this mode. You will still be able to run the
   CI against it. Once the PR is ready for review you can click in "Ready for
   review" button at the bottom of the page" and reviewers will start reviewing.
   When you are actively changing your PR, set it back to draft PR mode to
   signal that reviewers do not need to spend time reviewing the PR right now.

>    When it is ready for review again, mark it ready for review again.

Reviewer 6: nit: `s/mark it ready/mark it as ready`

Reviewer: or just `as such`

#. Owners of the repository will automatically adjust the labels on the pull
   request to track its state and progress towards merging.

#. Once the PR has been reviewed and the CI tests have passed, the PR will be
   merged by one of the repository owners. In case this does not happen, ping
   us on Slack.

> #. If reviewers have requested for changes and once those changes are done,

Reviewer 3: This one sounds weird, not 100% sure. I don't think you can use `for` after the verb `to request` (even though it is fine after a noun).
```suggestion
#. If reviewers have requested changes and once those changes are done,
```

Author: I think "have requested for" is correct, some English native speaker would know better. cc @joestringer

Reviewer 8: "for" is not needed.

   re-request a review for the reviewers that have requested changes. Otherwise,
   those reviewers will not be notified and your PR will not receive any
   reviews.

> Pull requests review process for committers

Reviewer 5: I think that the `#.` items in this section will create numbers, but 1-2 aren't steps that someone can take. Should they just be paragraphs?

Reviewer 5: Who is this paragraph targeted towards? Reviewers/Committers?

I think it would be useful to outline the first couple of points as general background without the numbering.

Then for the third and fourth points, they should be numbered but more importantly they should be written in a consistent, declarative manner, in particular with a summary sentence at the start of each paragrph. Perhaps something like the following:

As a committer, you are responsible to:
(1) Review Pull Requests that you are a code owner for. Belonging to a team does not mean that a committer should know every single line of code the team is maintaining...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Every committer in the `committers team <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/committers/members>`_

>    belongs to at least to `one or more other teams in the Cilium organization <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/team/teams>`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   belongs to `one or more other teams in the Cilium organization <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/team/teams>`_
```

>    if you would like to belong, or be removed from any team, please contact any

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   if you would like to be added or removed from any team, please contact any
```

   of the `maintainers <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/maintainers/members>`_.

> #. Once a PR is open, the ``CODEOWNERS`` file will automatically pick which `teams <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/team/teams>`_

Reviewer 5: nit: 
```suggestion
#. Once a PR is open, GitHub will automatically pick which `teams <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/team/teams>`_ should review the PR using the ``CODEOWNERS`` file.
```

>    should review the PR. Each committer can see which PR it needs to reviewed by

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
   should review the PR. Each committer can see which PR they were requested to review by
```

>    filtering which PRs it has been requested reviews for. A good filter is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   should review the PR. Each committer can see PRs they need to review by
   filtering PRs they has been requested reviews for. A good filter is
```

   provided in this `link <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_
   so make sure to bookmark it.

#. Belonging to a team does not mean that a committer should know every single

>    line of code the team is maintaining, for this reason it is recommended

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   line of code the team is maintaining. For this reason it is recommended
```

>    line of code the team is maintaining, for this reason it is recommended

Reviewer 5: I agree that the reviewer should not *know* every single line of code or how it fits into the wider picture, however I do expect reviewers to *read* every line of code in a file for their code owner group (or state in their review if they did not, so others can know that the area was less closely reviewed).

   that, once a review has been given and if the committer does feel that it
   would be better one other committer from his or her team would also review
   the PR, the committer re-requests a review for the team that should review

>    the PR. In the example bellow, the committer belonging to the CI team is

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
   the PR. In the example below, the committer belonging to the CI team is
```

>    the PR. In the example bellow, the committer belonging to the CI team is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   that, once a review has been given and if the committer feels another pair
   of eyes is needed, the committer should re-requests a review from the
   appropriate team. In the example bellow, the committer belonging to the CI
   team is
```

>    the PR. In the example below, the committer belonging to the CI team is

Reviewer 5: I think that we can state this more directly to the reader:

If you, as a reviewer, feel that your review is not comprehensive or that the code would benefit from an additional review from your codeowners team, then you should re-request review from the team. This allows other team members...

(It's still a little bit hand-wavy here because we rely on people "knowing" whether more review is necessary, but I think it's a bit more direct)

Author: Please re-read this section since I've applied Paul's changes first.

   re-requesting a review for other team members to review the PR. This allows

>    other team member belonging to the CI team to see the PR as part of the PRs

Reviewer 5: nit: 
```suggestion
   other team members belonging to the CI team to see the PR as part of the PRs
```

   that require review in the `filter provided above <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_

   .. image:: ../../images/re-request-review.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 50%

> #. When all review objectives for all ``CODEOWNERS`` are met and all CI tests

Reviewer 9: Maybe say "all required CI tests" here and put a link to https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/contributing/testing/ci/#triggering-pull-request-builds-with-jenkins?

Author: I've added the "required". GH will automatically mark which jobs are required, that link is a little bit above in the section:
>``test-me-please`` as described in :ref:`trigger_phrases`. If you are a

   have passed, you may set the ``ready-to-merge`` label to indicate that all
   criteria have been met.

   +--------------------------+---------------------------+
   | Labels                   | When to set               |
   +==========================+===========================+
   | ``ready-to-merge``       | PR is ready to be merged  |
   +--------------------------+---------------------------+

Weekly duties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Some of members of the committer's team will have rotational duties that change

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
Some members of the committers team will have rotational duties that change
```

#. Owners of the repository will automatically adjust the labels on the pull
   request to track its state and progress towards merging.

#. Once the PR has been reviewed and the CI tests have passed, the PR will be
   merged by one of the repository owners. In case this does not happen, ping
   us on Slack.

> #. If reviewers have requested for changes and once those changes are done,

Reviewer: Some contributors seem unsure how to push changes to answer to a review (because `git push --force` is often depicted as a bad thing, some people hesitate to force-push to the PR). Should we add a note explaining that force-pushing to the PR branch is the usual workflow, or something like that?

Reviewer 4: I think that sounds reasonable. If we do, I think we should encourage the use of `--force-with-lease` instead as an opportunity to share its existence. :)

#. Every committer in the `committers team <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/committers/members>`_
   belongs to `one or more other teams in the Cilium organization <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/team/teams>`_
   if you would like to be added or removed from any team, please contact any
   of the `maintainers <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/maintainers/members>`_.

#. Once a PR is open, GitHub will automatically pick which `teams <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/team/teams>`_
   should review the PR using the ``CODEOWNERS`` file. Each committer can see
   PRs they need to review by filtering PRs they has been requested reviews for.
   A good filter is provided in this `link <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_
   so make sure to bookmark it.

#. Belonging to a team does not mean that a committer should know every single
   line of code the team is maintaining. For this reason it is recommended
   that, once a review has been given and if the committer feels another pair
   of eyes is needed, the committer should re-request a review from the

>    appropriate team. In the example bellow, the committer belonging to the CI

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   appropriate team. In the example below, the committer belonging to the CI
```

>    that, once a review has been given and if the committer feels another pair
>    of eyes is needed, the committer should re-request a review from the
>    appropriate team. In the example bellow, the committer belonging to the CI

Reviewer 5: nit, voice:

```suggestion
   that, once you have reviewed a PR, if you feel that another pair
   of eyes is needed, you should re-request a review from the
   appropriate team. In the example bellow, the committer belonging to the CI
```

This makes it more direct, it's *your* responsibility, not a thing that happens outside of your control.

   review for other team members to review the PR. This allows other team
   members belonging to the CI team to see the PR as part of the PRs that
   require review in the `filter provided above <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_

   .. image:: ../../images/re-request-review.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 50%

#. When all review objectives for all ``CODEOWNERS`` are met and all required CI

>    tests have passed, you may set the ``ready-to-merge`` label to indicate that

Reviewer: \+ release notes have been set?

   all criteria have been met.

   +--------------------------+---------------------------+
   | Labels                   | When to set               |
   +==========================+===========================+

>    | ``ready-to-merge``       | PR is ready to be merged  |

Reviewer 6: Can't this be automated by requiring the PR to be reviewed by all requested reviewers?

Author: Discussed offline

   +--------------------------+---------------------------+

Weekly duties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some members of the committers team will have rotational duties that change
every week. The following steps describe how to perform those duties. Please
submit changes to these steps if you have found a better way to perform each

> duty.

Reviewer: Should we include links to the pages for the teams, in case a user wants to see who is currently in a given team?

#. Owners of the repository will automatically adjust the labels on the pull
   request to track its state and progress towards merging.

#. Once the PR has been reviewed and the CI tests have passed, the PR will be
   merged by one of the repository owners. In case this does not happen, ping
   us on Slack.

> #. If reviewers have requested changes and once those changes are done,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. If reviewers have requested changes and those changes have been addressed,
```

   those reviewers will not be notified and your PR will not receive any
   reviews. If the PR is considerably large (e.g. with more than 200 lines
   changed and/or more than 6 commits) create new commit for each review. This
   will make the review process smoother as GitHub has limitations that
   prevents reviewers from only seeing the new changes added since the last time
   they have reviewed a PR. Once all reviews are addressed those commits should
   be squashed against the commit that introduced those changes. This can be
   easily accomplished by the usage of ``git rebase -i origin/master`` and in
   that windows, move these new commits below the commit that introduced the
   changes and replace the work ``pick`` with ``fixup``. In the following
   example, commit ``d2cb02265`` will be meld into ``9c62e62d8`` and commit
   ``146829b59`` will be meld into ``9400fed20``.

       ::

           pick 9c62e62d8 docs: updating contribution guide process
           fixup d2cb02265 joe + paul + chris changes
           pick 9400fed20 docs: fixing typo
           fixup 146829b59 Quetin and Maciej reviews

   Once this is done you can perform

>    ``git push origin <branch-name> --force`` to push your changes

Reviewer 4: Saying `git push origin ...` implies that the user has write access to this repo. For example, I have my own fork that I push my changes to, then PR them to Cilium. I think it's probably sufficient to just say that the branch must be force-pushed, instead of giving exact instructions.

   into your PR and request for your PR to be merged.

Pull requests review process for committers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Every committer in the `committers team <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/committers/members>`_
   belongs to `one or more other teams in the Cilium organization <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/team/teams>`_
   if you would like to be added or removed from any team, please contact any
   of the `maintainers <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/maintainers/members>`_.

#. Once a PR is open, GitHub will automatically pick which `teams <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/team/teams>`_

>    should review the PR using the ``CODEOWNERS`` file. Each committer can see
>    PRs they need to review by filtering PRs they has been requested reviews for.
>    A good filter is provided in this `link <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_
>    so make sure to bookmark it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   should review the PR using the ``CODEOWNERS`` file. Each committer can see the
   PRs they need to review by filtering by reviews requested.
   A good filter is provided in this `link <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_
   so make sure to bookmark it.
```

Hopefully this simplifies it. I had a hard time parsing the previous sentence. Feel free to modify.

#. Belonging to a team does not mean that a committer should know every single
   line of code the team is maintaining. For this reason it is recommended

>    that, once you have reviewed a PR, if you feel that another pair of eyes is

Reviewer 4: Nit: 
```suggestion
   that once you have reviewed a PR, if you feel that another pair of eyes is
```

   needed, you should re-request a review from the appropriate team. In the
   example below, the committer belonging to the CI team is re-requesting a
   review for other team members to review the PR. This allows other team
   members belonging to the CI team to see the PR as part of the PRs that
   require review in the `filter provided above <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_

   .. image:: ../../images/re-request-review.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 50%

#. When all review objectives for all ``CODEOWNERS`` are met, all required CI
   tests have passed and a proper release label as been set, you may set the

>    ``ready-to-merge`` label to indicate that all criteria have been met.

Reviewer 5: /cc @jrfastab

   required to obtain the privileges to modify GitHub labels on the pull
   request.

Dedicated expectation time for each member of Janitors team: Follow the next
steps 1 to 2 times per day. Works best if done first thing in the working day.

#. Review all PRs requesting for review in `for you <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_;

> #. If this PR was opened by a non-committer (e.g. external contributor) please
>    assign yourself to that PR and make sure to keep track the PR gets reviewed
>    and merged.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#. If this PR was opened by a non-committer (e.g. external contributor) please
   assign yourself to that PR and make sure to keep track the PR gets reviewed
   and merged. This may extend beyond your assigned week for Janitor duty.
```

Reviewer 5: Not sure whether to mention here as well, but my thinking is that this is best-effort and should be done by matching external contributor effort. If the contributor is responsive, we should be responsive. If the contributor is slow to respond, then we do not need to spend a lot of effort chasing them down to get their PR in.

   required to obtain the privileges to modify GitHub labels on the pull
   request.

Dedicated expectation time for each member of Janitors team: Follow the next
steps 1 to 2 times per day. Works best if done first thing in the working day.

> #. Review all PRs requesting for review in `for you <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+review-requested%3A%40me+sort%3Aupdated-asc>`_;

Reviewer: These are all the PRs requesting reviews from me as a member of cilium/janitors, but also as a member of other teams or even personally. As far as I understand:

- It shows PRs that are not related to the janitors' duty.
- It does not show merge candidates (approved PRs with CI checks passing) if they do not request from janitors. We still have the `ready-to-merge` label, but it is not always used>

I wasn't able to find a good filter for any of those two items, is anyone using something more efficient?

Author: >It shows PRs that are not related to the janitors' duty.

Unfortunately there is not way to see which reviews are requested for a particular team

>It does not show merge candidates (approved PRs with CI checks passing) if they do not request from janitors. We still have the ready-to-merge label, but it is not always used>

this one will be commiter's fault, not janitor's

Reviewer 5: I think we should advocate all Cilium contributors to use this reviews page s their point-of-contact for reviews rather than, eg, everyone iterating over the total list of PRs :-)

Re: `ready-to-merge` label I don't see any harm in adding a link here that says "check through the PRs with ready-to-merge and if they exist, consider merging them". (In the absence of a bot that will do this for us)

Reviewer 10: Do we have a description of ready-to-merge label somewhere. I've never understood exactly when to set it and who sets it.

Reviewer 5: https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/11174/files#r418665764

   | Labels                            | When to set                                                                                |
   +===================================+============================================================================================+
   | ``dont-merge/needs-release-note`` | Do NOT merge PR, needs a release note                                                      |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/bug``              | This is a non-trivial bugfix and is a user facing bug                                      |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/major``            | This is a major feature addition, e.g. Add MongoDB support                                 |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | ``release-note/minor``            | This is a minor feature addition, e.g. Add support for a Kubernetes version                |

Reviewer 5: Question: How do you see performance improvements?

I'm thinking even micro-optimizations like https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/11089 . It'd be nice to highlight that in the blog, but I don't know if it's reasonable to add such an item to the `minor` section.

Also, I think it'd be useful to highlight that `minor` should be user-facing. `misc` should not be user-facing. If you are adding `misc` and then realise there is some user impact of any kind, it should be `minor` instead. I think that the descriptions in the github labels try to capture this.

#. Committers belonging to the `Triage team <https://github.com/orgs/cilium/teams/triage>`_
   should make sure that:

   #. `Issues opened by community users are tracked down <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+no%3Aassignee+sort%3Aupdated-desc>`_:

       #. Add the label ``kind/community-report``;
       #. If feasible, try to reproduce the issue described;
       #. Assign a member that is responsible for that code section to that GitHub
          issue;
       #. If it is a relevant bug to the rest of the committers, bring the issue
          up in the weekly meeting.

   #. `Issues recently commented are not left out unanswered <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3Akind%2Fcommunity-report>`_:

       #. If there is someone already assigned to that GitHub issue and that
          committer hasn't provided an answer to that user for a while, ping
          that committer directly on Slack;
       #. If the issue cannot be solved, bring the issue up in the weekly
          meeting.

Backporting PR for Backport team
--------------------------------

> Dedicated expectation time for each member of Triage team: 60 minutes per

Author: s/Triage/Backporting

> week depending on release needs to be performed at the moment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
week depending on releases that need to be performed at the moment.
```

Reviewer 5: I think it's worth noting here that even if the next release is not imminently planned, it is still important to perform backports to keep the process smooth; If we delay backports, we may delay releases which we do not want (especially if there's something security-sensitive coming up).

In addition, stating that when you file a backport PR, you are responsible to drive it to completion, even if it stretches after your assigned week for backporters. If this is not feasible (eg PTO), you are responsible to initiate handover of the PR to the next week's backporters.

   | ``dont-merge/needs-release-note`` | Do NOT merge PR, needs a release note                                                                  |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/bug``              | This is a non-trivial bugfix and is a user facing bug                                                  |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/major``            | This is a major feature addition, e.g. Add MongoDB support                                             |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | ``release-note/minor``            | This is a minor feature addition, e.g. Add support for a Kubernetes version                            |
   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | ``release-note/misc``             | This is a not user facing change , e.g. Refactor endpoint package, a bug fix of a non-released feature |

Reviewer 6: plz add `release-note/ci` here too

#. Check for upgrade compatibility impact and if in doubt, set the label
   ``upgrade-impact`` and discuss in the Slack channel or in the weekly meeting.

   +--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | Labels                   | When to set                                                               |
   +==========================+===========================================================================+
   | ``upgrade-impact``       | The code changes have a potential upgrade impact                          |
   +--------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

#. When all review objectives for all ``CODEOWNERS`` are met, all CI tests have
   passed, and all reviewers have approved the requested changes, merge the PR
   by clicking in the "Rebase and merge" button.

#. Merge PRs with the ``ready-to-merge`` label set `here <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+draft%3Afalse+sort%3Aupdated-asc+label%3Aready-to-merge+>`_

Triage issues for Triage team
-----------------------------

> Dedicated expectation time for each member of Triage team: 15 / 30 minutes per

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dedicated expectation time for each member of Triage team: 15/30 minutes per
```

          issue;
       #. If it is a relevant bug to the rest of the committers, bring the issue
          up in the weekly meeting.

   #. `Issues recently commented are not left out unanswered <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3Akind%2Fcommunity-report>`_:

       #. If there is someone already assigned to that GitHub issue and that
          committer hasn't provided an answer to that user for a while, ping
          that committer directly on Slack;
       #. If the issue cannot be solved, bring the issue up in the weekly
          meeting.

Backporting PR for Backport team
--------------------------------

Dedicated expectation time for each member of Backport team: 60 minutes per
week depending on releases that need to be performed at the moment.

Even if the next release is not imminently planned, it is still important to
perform backports to keep the process smooth and to catch potential regressions
in stable branches as soon as possible. If backports are delayed, this can also
delay releases which is important to avoid especially if there are

> security-sensitive bug fixes that requires an immediate release.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
security-sensitive bug fixes that require an immediate release.
```

   note suitability. Put yourself into the perspective of a future release
   notes reader with lack of context and ensure the title is precise but brief.

   +-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | Labels                            | When to set                                                                                            |

Reviewer 7: This table duplicates the other one further up. What about adding a link to the other one instead as janitors should already be familiar with the release-note labels anyway?

       #. If there is someone already assigned to that GitHub issue and that
          committer hasn't provided an answer to that user for a while, ping
          that committer directly on Slack;
       #. If the issue cannot be solved, bring the issue up in the weekly
          meeting.

Backporting PR for Backport team
--------------------------------

Dedicated expectation time for each member of Backport team: 60 minutes per
week depending on releases that need to be performed at the moment.

Even if the next release is not imminently planned, it is still important to
perform backports to keep the process smooth and to catch potential regressions
in stable branches as soon as possible. If backports are delayed, this can also
delay releases which is important to avoid especially if there are
security-sensitive bug fixes that require an immediate release.

In addition, when a backport PR is open, the person opening it is responsible to
drive it to completion, even if it stretches after the assigned week of
backporting hat. If this is not feasible (e.g. PTO), you are responsible to
initiate handover of the PR to the next week's backporters.

> Follow the :ref:`backport_process` guide to know how to perform this task.

Reviewer 11: Since the backport process guide only talks about the technical process, maybe we should also mention here that it is okay to leave out a tricky commit from the backport PR and pull in the original author for help if it is deemed to complicated  to backport without extensive knowledge.
